# Scheduler Application

If you only wish to compile / run, skip to [Compilation / Running Instructions](#compilation--running-instructions)

## Overview

Welcome to the Rust Scheduler app. This will serve as a very quick guide on how to read this project best. This project is split into 3 main components; the `clock` module, the `gui` module, and the `application` module. The `clock` and `application` modules are the 'backend', so to speak, and contain most of the logic for this program. The `gui` module contains a lot of code written for `GTK`, which is a foreign library, and is not commented as there is a lot of unavoidable boilerplate code.

The contents of each module:

`clock` module:
- Date struct (for '2019-11-05')
- Day enum (for 'Thursday')
- Time struct (for '09:30')

`application` module:
- Application struct (contains a list of courses and holidays)
- Course struct (contains Date and Task)
- Task struct (contains Date)

`gui` module:
- Menu functions
- Window functions
- Util functions

For more information on how these structures work together, see the comments in their respective files. The 'TESTS' sections in the files only contain tests and no logic. However, they may help you understand how a certain function is meant to work. If you wish to check the `gui` module, start at `gui/mod.rs`.

This project is versioned with git! You can check the git history using `git log`. Unfortunately, I initialized git a bit late into the process, so most of the application and clock modules' history is not available.

## Compilation / Running Instructions

The only dependencies you need to have installed on your system is GTK+3 and Rust itself. Keep in mind Rust will download additional dependencies when you compile, but those are only local (if you run `cargo clean`, it will delete all cached files). Here are some ways you can install it on your system:

### Installing Dependencies

MacOS:
- Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/), a package manager for Mac.
- Run: `brew install gtk+3` with `sudo` if necessary.

Linux:
- Install through your system's package manager.

Windows:
- Follow the instructions here [GTK+3](https://www.gtk.org/download/windows.php). 

### Running the Project

You can now run the appropriate executable in the Product folder. `scheduler_mac` for MacOS, `scheduler_linux` for GNU/Linux systems, and `scheduler.exe` for Windows. Read on if you wish to compile the project yourself. 

### Installing Rust

Install Rust using your system's package manager (Homebrew, apt, pacman, etc.) or through [their website](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

### Compiling the Project

When you have downloaded the necessary dependencies, now:
- In the directory with `Cargo.toml`, run `cargo build`.
    - This will build the project.
- Now, you can run the project with `cargo run`.
- Alternatively, run the executable at `target/debug/scheduler`.

### Compiling Documentation

You may now run `cargo doc --no-deps --document-private-items --open` to open the documentation for this project.

## What you can ignore

- `.git` directory: generated by git
- `target` directory: generated by Cargo
- `Cargo.lock`: a lock file generated by Cargo
- `scheduler.bin`: an example data file for the application
    - Feel free to remove it to test the application from scratch.
- `.gitignore`: used for git
